README.md, before:

# XRP Wallet Manager
[![CI](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
> Secure desktop application for managing XRP Ledger wallets, secrets, and multisig signers.

XRP Wallet Manager is a cross-platform GUI built with Python and tkinter. It keeps wallet secrets encrypted on disk, wraps common XRP Ledger flows in a friendly interface, and ships with tooling to produce signed installers for macOS, Linux, and Windows.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Packaging installers](#packaging-installers)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Application Tabs](#application-tabs)
- [Security Features](#security-features)
- [Multi-Signature Wallets](#multi-signature-wallets)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Security](#security)

## Features

### Modern Interface (NEW!)
- **Multi-Wallet Management**: Manage multiple XRP wallets in one application
- **Beautiful Modern Design**: Clean, professional interface with modern styling
- **Secure Key Input**: Private keys requested on-demand, not stored in files
- **Wallet Switching**: Easy switching between different wallets
- **Smart Wallet Cards**: Visual wallet overview with balances and network info
- **Persistent Wallets**: Secrets saved locally so wallets survive app restarts (see security notes)

### Core Functionality
- **Full Wallet Management**: Send/receive XRP, check balances, view transaction history
- **Multi-Signature Support**: Create and manage multi-signature wallets
- **Network Support**: Works with both mainnet and testnet
- **Transaction History**: View detailed transaction history with filtering
- **Test Wallet Generation**: Generate test wallets for testnet development
- **Address Validation**: Automatic validation of XRP addresses

## Installation

1. **Clone or download this repository**

2. **Create a virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Unlock the app:**
   - Launch the GUI (`python run.py`)
   - Choose a master password when prompted (minimum 8 characters)
   - Use **Wallets → Add Wallet** to import an existing seed/private key or create a new test wallet

> ℹ️ Environment variables are no longer required for normal use. They remain available for CLI automation or legacy integrations—see [Environment variables (optional)](#environment-variables-optional) below.

## Usage

### Starting the Application

```bash
source venv/bin/activate  # Activate virtual environment
python run.py
# or directly: python gui.py
```

## Packaging installers

**macOS**
- Prerequisites: Python 3.10+, PyInstaller, Xcode command line tools for code signing.
- Activate your virtualenv, then run `pyinstaller "XRP Wallet Manager.spec"` or `pyinstaller --windowed --name "XRP Wallet Manager" run.py`.
- The signed `.app` bundle lands in `dist/XRP Wallet Manager.app`; create a DMG (e.g. with `create-dmg`) if you need a disk image.

**Linux (native host)**
- On a Linux workstation run `installers/linux/build.sh`. It creates an isolated build environment and writes artifacts beneath `dist-linux/<arch>/` (for example, `dist-linux/x86_64/`).
- Result is a folder-style distribution that can be tarred and shipped.

**Linux (Docker on macOS/Windows)**
- Start a Docker-compatible runtime (e.g. `colima start --arch x86_64` on Apple Silicon if you need x86_64 output).
- Execute `installers/linux/run-build.sh`. The script builds the container image (`installers/linux/Dockerfile`) and runs the native Linux build inside it. Artifacts appear in the host `dist-linux/<arch>/` directory.
- Stop the runtime afterwards (`colima stop`).
- To target a specific architecture, set `LINUX_BUILDER_PLATFORM` before running the script (examples below). Multiple runs can co-exist in different subdirectories.

```bash
# Build for amd64 (default on x86 hosts)
installers/linux/run-build.sh

# Cross-build for arm64 from any host with buildx/qemu available
LINUX_BUILDER_PLATFORM=linux/arm64 installers/linux/run-build.sh
```

### Continuous integration builds

Every push and pull request triggers the GitHub Actions workflow [`CI`](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml), which produces Linux bundles for both `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64`. You can download the artifacts directly from the workflow run summary, or promote them into a release without rebuilding locally.

**Windows**
- Install Python 3.10+, the Visual Studio 2022 Build Tools (for C runtime), and `pip install pyinstaller -r requirements.txt`.
- From an activated `venv\Scripts\activate`, run `pyinstaller --clean --noconfirm --windowed --name "XRP Wallet Manager" run.py`.
- Bundles are written to `dist\XRP Wallet Manager\`. Optionally wrap them in an installer using your preferred tooling (MSIX, Inno Setup, etc.).

On first launch you will be prompted to create a master password. This password encrypts your wallets on disk and is required every time the app starts. Keep it safe—if you lose it you will need to re-import your wallets from their original secrets.

## Configuration

### Encrypted wallets (recommended)

Wallet secrets are stored in `data/wallets.enc`, encrypted with the master password you choose on first launch. To add or update wallets, use the GUI:

1. Unlock with your master password.
2. Select **Wallets → Add Wallet**.
3. Provide the seed/private key and network.

You can manage multiple wallets, keep them synced across networks, and export secrets (after re-authenticating) via **Wallets → 🔐 Export Secrets**.

### Environment variables (optional)

Environment variables remain for advanced/automated scenarios (for example running `run.py` headless on a server). Be aware that storing secrets in plain-text files is risky—only use this approach in controlled environments.

```env
# Your XRP wallet secret (family seed starting with 's' or hex private key)
WALLET_SECRET=
# Legacy fallback name for backwards compatibility
PRIVATE_KEY=

# Network (testnet for development, mainnet for production)
NETWORK=testnet

# Server URLs (defaults provided)
MAINNET_URL=https://xrplcluster.com
TESTNET_URL=https://s.altnet.rippletest.net:51234
```

### Getting Started

1. **For Testing (Recommended for first-time users):**
   - Keep the default `testnet` network when adding your first wallet.
   - Use the **Generate Test Wallet** button in the Wallet tab to create a faucet-funded wallet.
   - Record the seed/private key in a secure location (outside the app) for backup purposes.

2. **For Production:**
   - Add your existing mainnet wallet via **Wallets → Add Wallet**.
   - Confirm the network selection is `mainnet` and verify the derived address before sending funds.

## Application Tabs

### 1. Wallet Tab
- View wallet address, balance, and network information
- Copy address to clipboard
- Generate test wallets (testnet only)
- View network status and reserve requirements

### 2. Send Tab
- Send XRP to any address
- Add optional memos to transactions
- View transaction results
- Automatic address validation

### 3. History Tab
- View transaction history
- Filter by number of transactions
- See transaction details including type, amounts, and dates

### 4. Multi-Sig Tab
- Create multi-signature wallets
- Sign multi-signature transactions
- Submit combined signatures

### 5. Settings Tab
- View current network settings
- Configure XRP ledger endpoints
- Trigger encrypted wallet exports and advanced maintenance tools

## Security Features

- **Private Key Protection**: Keys stored in .env files, never displayed in GUI
- **Address Validation**: Automatic validation of XRP addresses
- **Transaction Confirmation**: Confirmation dialogs for all transactions
- **Network Isolation**: Separate testnet and mainnet configurations

## Multi-Signature Wallets

This application supports creating and managing multi-signature wallets:

1. **Creating a Multi-Sig Wallet:**
   - Enter signer addresses (one per line) in the Multi-Sig tab
   - Set the required number of signatures
   - Click "Create Multi-Sig Wallet"

2. **Signing Transactions:**
   - Load a transaction JSON file
   - Sign with your private key
   - Save the signed transaction
   - Combine with other signatures before submission

## Important Notes

### Security Warnings

- **Never share your private key** with anyone
- **Keep your .env file secure** and never commit it to version control
- **Protect `data/wallets.enc`** – the GUI stores encrypted secrets here; keep it private and backed up.
- **Use testnet for development** and testing
- **Master password is required** – it encrypts `data/wallets.enc`. Losing it means you must restore wallets from the original seed/private key backups.
- **Verify addresses carefully** before sending transactions

### XRP Ledger Requirements

- **Account Reserve**: 1 XRP minimum balance (reduced from 10 XRP in December 2024)
- **Owner Reserve**: 0.2 XRP per object (trustlines, offers, etc.)
- **Transaction Fees**: Small network fees apply to all transactions

### Network Differences

- **Testnet**: Free test XRP, safe for development
- **Mainnet**: Real XRP, use for production only

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"No wallet loaded" error:**
   - Check that your private key is correctly set in the `.env` file
   - Ensure the private key is a valid 64-character hex string

2. **Connection errors:**
   - Check your internet connection
   - Verify the network URLs in your `.env` file

3. **Transaction failures:**
   - Ensure sufficient XRP balance (including reserves)
   - Verify destination address format
   - Check network connectivity

### Getting Help

- Check the transaction result display for detailed error messages
- Use testnet for safe testing
- Verify all addresses before sending real XRP

## Development

### File Structure

```
xrp_wallet_manager/
├── gui.py              # Modern multi-wallet GUI application
├── xrp_wallet.py       # Core XRP wallet functionality
├── run.py              # Application launcher
├── .env.example        # Template for environment variables
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
└── README.md          # This file
```

### Dependencies

- `xrpl-py`: Official XRP Ledger Python library
- `python-dotenv`: Environment variable management
- `requests`: HTTP client for API calls
- `tkinter`: GUI framework (included with Python)

## Contributing

We welcome bug reports, feature suggestions, and pull requests. Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on local setup, coding standards, and how to run checks before submitting changes.

## License

Distributed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software under its terms.

## Security

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for supported versions and how to report vulnerabilities. Please do not post sensitive details in public issues.

## Disclaimer

This software is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind. Always test on testnet before interacting with mainnet funds, and back up any secrets exported from the application.

Commit message:

Remove legacy .env wallet loading

README.md, after:

# XRP Wallet Manager
[![CI](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
> Secure desktop application for managing XRP Ledger wallets, secrets, and multisig signers.

XRP Wallet Manager is a cross-platform GUI built with Python and tkinter. It keeps wallet secrets encrypted on disk, wraps common XRP Ledger flows in a friendly interface, and ships with tooling to produce signed installers for macOS, Linux, and Windows.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Packaging installers](#packaging-installers)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Application Tabs](#application-tabs)
- [Security Features](#security-features)
- [Multi-Signature Wallets](#multi-signature-wallets)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Security](#security)

## Features

### Modern Interface (NEW!)
- **Multi-Wallet Management**: Manage multiple XRP wallets in one application
- **Beautiful Modern Design**: Clean, professional interface with modern styling
- **Secure Key Input**: Private keys requested on-demand, not stored in files
- **Wallet Switching**: Easy switching between different wallets
- **Smart Wallet Cards**: Visual wallet overview with balances and network info
- **Persistent Wallets**: Secrets saved locally so wallets survive app restarts (see security notes)

### Core Functionality
- **Full Wallet Management**: Send/receive XRP, check balances, view transaction history
- **Multi-Signature Support**: Create and manage multi-signature wallets
- **Network Support**: Works with both mainnet and testnet
- **Transaction History**: View detailed transaction history with filtering
- **Test Wallet Generation**: Generate test wallets for testnet development
- **Address Validation**: Automatic validation of XRP addresses

## Installation

1. **Clone or download this repository**

2. **Create a virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Unlock the app:**
   - Launch the GUI (`python run.py`)
   - Choose a master password when prompted (minimum 8 characters)
   - Use **Wallets → Add Wallet** to import an existing seed/private key or create a new test wallet

> ℹ️ Environment variables are no longer required for normal use. They remain available for CLI automation or legacy integrations—see [Environment variables (optional)](#environment-variables-optional) below.

## Usage

### Starting the Application

```bash
source venv/bin/activate  # Activate virtual environment
python run.py
# or directly: python gui.py
```

## Packaging installers

**macOS**
- Prerequisites: Python 3.10+, PyInstaller, Xcode command line tools for code signing.
- Activate your virtualenv, then run `pyinstaller "XRP Wallet Manager.spec"` or `pyinstaller --windowed --name "XRP Wallet Manager" run.py`.
- The signed `.app` bundle lands in `dist/XRP Wallet Manager.app`; create a DMG (e.g. with `create-dmg`) if you need a disk image.

**Linux (native host)**
- On a Linux workstation run `installers/linux/build.sh`. It creates an isolated build environment and writes artifacts beneath `dist-linux/<arch>/` (for example, `dist-linux/x86_64/`).
- Result is a folder-style distribution that can be tarred and shipped.

**Linux (Docker on macOS/Windows)**
- Start a Docker-compatible runtime (e.g. `colima start --arch x86_64` on Apple Silicon if you need x86_64 output).
- Execute `installers/linux/run-build.sh`. The script builds the container image (`installers/linux/Dockerfile`) and runs the native Linux build inside it. Artifacts appear in the host `dist-linux/<arch>/` directory.
- Stop the runtime afterwards (`colima stop`).
- To target a specific architecture, set `LINUX_BUILDER_PLATFORM` before running the script (examples below). Multiple runs can co-exist in different subdirectories.

```bash
# Build for amd64 (default on x86 hosts)
installers/linux/run-build.sh

# Cross-build for arm64 from any host with buildx/qemu available
LINUX_BUILDER_PLATFORM=linux/arm64 installers/linux/run-build.sh
```

### Continuous integration builds

Every push and pull request triggers the GitHub Actions workflow [`CI`](https://github.com/FMLBeast/xrp-wallet-manager/actions/workflows/ci.yml), which produces Linux bundles for both `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64`. You can download the artifacts directly from the workflow run summary, or promote them into a release without rebuilding locally.

**Windows**
- Install Python 3.10+, the Visual Studio 2022 Build Tools (for C runtime), and `pip install pyinstaller -r requirements.txt`.
- From an activated `venv\Scripts\activate`, run `pyinstaller --clean --noconfirm --windowed --name "XRP Wallet Manager" run.py`.
- Bundles are written to `dist\XRP Wallet Manager\`. Optionally wrap them in an installer using your preferred tooling (MSIX, Inno Setup, etc.).

On first launch you will be prompted to create a master password. This password encrypts your wallets on disk and is required every time the app starts. Keep it safe—if you lose it you will need to re-import your wallets from their original secrets.

## Configuration

### Encrypted wallets (recommended)

Wallet secrets are stored in `data/wallets.enc`, encrypted with the master password you choose on first launch. To add or update wallets, use the GUI:

1. Unlock with your master password.
2. Select **Wallets → Add Wallet**.
3. Provide the seed/private key and network.

You can manage multiple wallets, keep them synced across networks, and export secrets (after re-authenticating) via **Wallets → 🔐 Export Secrets**.

### Getting Started

1. **For Testing (Recommended for first-time users):**
   - Keep the default `testnet` network when adding your first wallet.
   - Use the **Generate Test Wallet** button in the Wallet tab to create a faucet-funded wallet.
   - Record the seed/private key in a secure location (outside the app) for backup purposes.

2. **For Production:**
   - Add your existing mainnet wallet via **Wallets → Add Wallet**.
   - Confirm the network selection is `mainnet` and verify the derived address before sending funds.

## Application Tabs

### 1. Wallet Tab
- View wallet address, balance, and network information
- Copy address to clipboard
- Generate test wallets (testnet only)
- View network status and reserve requirements

### 2. Send Tab
- Send XRP to any address
- Add optional memos to transactions
- View transaction results
- Automatic address validation

### 3. History Tab
- View transaction history
- Filter by number of transactions
- See transaction details including type, amounts, and dates

### 4. Multi-Sig Tab
- Create multi-signature wallets
- Sign multi-signature transactions
- Submit combined signatures

### 5. Settings Tab
- View current network settings
- Configure XRP ledger endpoints
- Trigger encrypted wallet exports and advanced maintenance tools

## Security Features

- **Private Key Protection**: Secrets encrypted in `data/wallets.enc`, unlocked via your master password
- **Address Validation**: Automatic validation of XRP addresses
- **Transaction Confirmation**: Confirmation dialogs for all transactions
- **Network Isolation**: Separate testnet and mainnet configurations

## Multi-Signature Wallets

This application supports creating and managing multi-signature wallets:

1. **Creating a Multi-Sig Wallet:**
   - Enter signer addresses (one per line) in the Multi-Sig tab
   - Set the required number of signatures
   - Click "Create Multi-Sig Wallet"

2. **Signing Transactions:**
   - Load a transaction JSON file
   - Sign with your private key
   - Save the signed transaction
   - Combine with other signatures before submission

## Important Notes

### Security Warnings

- **Never share your private key** with anyone
- **Keep your master password secret** and store encrypted exports in safe locations
- **Protect `data/wallets.enc`** – the GUI stores encrypted secrets here; keep it private and backed up.
- **Use testnet for development** and testing
- **Master password is required** – it encrypts `data/wallets.enc`. Losing it means you must restore wallets from the original seed/private key backups.
- **Verify addresses carefully** before sending transactions

### XRP Ledger Requirements

- **Account Reserve**: 1 XRP minimum balance (reduced from 10 XRP in December 2024)
- **Owner Reserve**: 0.2 XRP per object (trustlines, offers, etc.)
- **Transaction Fees**: Small network fees apply to all transactions

### Network Differences

- **Testnet**: Free test XRP, safe for development
- **Mainnet**: Real XRP, use for production only

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"No wallet loaded" error:**
   - Unlock the application with your master password and ensure at least one wallet is imported.
   - In the Wallets menu, confirm that a wallet is marked as active.

2. **Connection errors:**
   - Check your internet connection.
   - Verify the selected network and server endpoints in the **Settings** tab.

3. **Transaction failures:**
   - Ensure sufficient XRP balance (including reserves)
   - Verify destination address format
   - Check network connectivity

### Getting Help

- Check the transaction result display for detailed error messages
- Use testnet for safe testing
- Verify all addresses before sending real XRP

## Development

### File Structure

```
xrp_wallet_manager/
├── gui.py              # Modern multi-wallet GUI application
├── xrp_wallet.py       # Core XRP wallet functionality
├── run.py              # Application launcher
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
└── README.md          # This file
```

### Dependencies

- `xrpl-py`: Official XRP Ledger Python library
- `requests`: HTTP client for API calls
- `tkinter`: GUI framework (included with Python)

## Contributing

We welcome bug reports, feature suggestions, and pull requests. Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on local setup, coding standards, and how to run checks before submitting changes.

## License

Distributed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software under its terms.

## Security

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for supported versions and how to report vulnerabilities. Please do not post sensitive details in public issues.

## Disclaimer

This software is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind. Always test on testnet before interacting with mainnet funds, and back up any secrets exported from the application.
